---
layout: post
title: "Why I moved to San Francisco"
date: 2013-07-21 00:33
comments: true
categories: 
  - Life
---
# 

It's been three months since I first moved to San Francisco and decided
I should share why I moved here in the first place. The primary reasons
why I moved to San Francisco are for my career and to be around more
like-minded people.

Career-wise, what made San Francisco appealing to me is the number and
diversity of employment opportunities. In Connecticut, if you want to
work with "technology" then you work for one of the many insurance
companies headquartered there or an agency of some kind. In addition to
available opportunities, there is also more parity between the job
market in the bay area and my skill set and experience. For example,
today [Indeed.com][1] reports 184 results for the "Python" in the entire
state of Connecticut, while there are nearly 2,700 results for the San
Francisco Bay Area. At one point in my life, I was told I was wasting my
life messing around with GNU/Linux and other Open Source software.
Things would have been a little better if I moved two hours away to
either Boston or New York, but if I'm going to move then I might as well
get better weather out of it, too.

  [1]: http://www.indeed.com/

I also moved to San Francisco to be around more like-minded people.
Things that interest me (besides gardening and home brewing) are
startups and tech. There were a few groups around my old location that
were interesting, but they typically required an hour long drive to show
up to their events. Often times, the groups failed early due to a lack
of participation (including the hackerspace I founded but that story is
for another day).


## Thoughts so far

As I mentioned, I've now been here for three months. My thoughts so far
are:

* The place really is quite small. Especially in tech. Everyone seems to
  know everyone, which can be fun socially, but you need to watch what
  you say when you're talking shop.

* The Sillicon Valley/SF Bay tech isolation chamber is real (and so is
  the echo chamber). Companies sometimes seem huge when you're in the
  bay, but if you talk to anyone from outside of the area, they're like
  "*Who?*"

* San Francisco's neighborhoods are really awesome. SF
  is divided into a bunch of small neighborhoods, each with their own
  unique attributes. There really is a place for everyone.


## Conclusion

I moved to San Francisco because I thought it would be good for my
career and because I thought I would meet more like-minded people. This
has certainly proved to be the case. What I was not expecting but have
experienced so far is how small and isolated the SF tech scene actually
is.

