---
layout: post
title: Operations Philosophy
date: 2015-10-10 09:39
comments: true
categories:
- Operations
---
# 

After a short eight years of working in operations, I’ve developed my
own philosophy pertaining to this field and wanted to share it.

My philosophy about successful operations comes down to three main
maxims:

1. Put your customers then your organization first
1. Operations is bigger than performing releases and being on call
1. Emphasize learning and sharing

In this post, I’ll discuss about each of these maxims in detail.

## Put your customers first

In operations we tend to end up in the weeds a lot, often for perfectly
valid technical reasons, and this principle is here to pull us out from
time to time to serve the needs of our internal and external customers.

I’ve witnessed and even been the cause of “false requirements” getting
tacked onto projects because why would we not want to do thing X now?
This is a major problem though because false requirements are actually
wasteful. They may indeed be helpful but we must consider the
opportunity cost: For each hour we spend on one of these false
requirements we are not delivering impactful changes that our customers
need and probably asked for.

Instead, we should focus on designing and building with the customer in
mind. At my current client, we’ve been finding weekly sprint planning
helpful for prioritizing customer requirements and getting them done. At
the same time, we acknowledge that we are also our own customers so we
can keep a good handle on our own requests as well.

Finally, focus on building platforms. In other words, focus on building
technologies that your customers can build upon with minimal hands-on
help or mediation from your team.

## Operations is bigger than performing releases and being on call

As someone who studied Business Information Systems in university, I
learned a great deal about operations from the study of Operations
Management. To put it succinctly, operations management is the area of
management responsible for producing goods and services and delivering
them to its customers. It’s a 240 year old field, some argue, starting
with the publication of Adam Smith’s “Wealth of Nations.”

We should borrow and steal from this field as much as possible then!
These folks have been applying the scientific method to operations for
hundreds of years. Among the way, they’ve researched capacity
management, queuing theory, statistical process control, theory of
constraints, and lean manufacturing.

These are the same folks who build and maintain infrastructure at their
respective companies and are the same folks whose job is it to deliver
their product or service to their customers.

I hope to cover this field in more detail soon, but for now you should
just remember that there exists 200 years of research into many of the
problems that we operations folk run into every day.

## Emphasize learning and sharing

Finally, we need to emphasize learning and sharing. We need to build
processes and workflows that generate and capture lessons learned and
will be considered the next time around the block. These processes and
workflows should include incident postmortems and regular
retrospectives. We then need to share those things outside of our local
team. 

In order to do those things, however, we need a culture of trust,
collaboration, and cooperation. For more about this, go ahead and watch
this video from Velocity ’09, [10+ Deploys Per
Day](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LdOe18KhtT4).

## Summary

There may be other maxims that aren’t coming to mind right now, but I
really like these three together. Successful operations is about putting
your customers first, remembering it’s a bigger area than doing releases
and being on-call, and emphasizing learning and sharing in a culture of
trust.

Thanks for listening! How about you, what are your maxims for a
successful operations philosophy?
