---
layout: post
title: Personal Archery FAQ
date: 2015-05-24 06:33
comments: true
categories: 
  - Life
---
# 

{% img left http://i.imgur.com/JgVVfCk.png 270 480 Archery %}

When people learn that I'm a traditional archer, they tend to ask me a number of
questions. I thought this might be a fun blog post, so here we go!

## How far do I shoot?

I don't shoot very far! Because I'm currently focused on form (more on
that below), I am only shooting from between ten to twenty meters.

## How accurate am I?

I'm not at all because I'm currently focused on *precision*. This is
mostly a matter of form and consistency, which is why I don't have to
"shoot" ("loose"? "let"?) from very far. I can spend an entire session
at 10 meters and get very rapid feedback on this, so I do. (Note: I'm
being pedantic about precision vs accuracy, explanation in the image
below).

{% img center http://cdn.antarcticglaciers.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/precision_accuracy.png 417 278 "Precision vs Accuracy" %}

A variation of this question is sometimes if I've ever "robin hooded" an
arrow. *Robin hooding* is when you shoot one arrow back into another
one.

![Not yet - arrow damage](http://i.imgur.com/vR2mAMo.png)

My answer today is "not yet!"

## Have you seen the video of that Danish guy? Lars something? It's really amazing!

Ah yes, Lars Anderson. He's done [a couple of
videos](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=lars+anderson) but
[one in particular](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BEG-ly9tQGk) has
gotten a lot of attention recently.

The videos are pretty amazing to watch and highly entertaining, but you
won't find me doing those things any time soon. I'm perfectly content
right here.

{% img right https://scontent.fsjc1-1.fna.fbcdn.net/hphotos-xfp1/v/t1.0-9/11209693_10153295331296703_5424043068009224924_n.jpg?oh=9a0a04c3728c5ed68e5efa6708708160&oe=56035DA8 270 480 "Archery point of view" %}

## Where do I go?

There's an [archery range in Golden Gate
Park](http://www.golden-gate-park.com/archery.html) which is free to
use. Nearby is the [San Francisco Archery Pro
Shop](http://www.bysel.com/sfarch/) which has good lessons and cheap
all-day rentals.

## How did I get started?

I had been interested in archery for several years but it wasn't until a
couple of months ago that I finally tried it.

I went to a [local shop](http://www.bysel.com/sfarch/) and took my first
lesson. It was so much fun that I took another one and, when I tried to
sign up for my third, my instructor suggested that I should make some
time to practice all of the things I've just learned on my own.

So I rented the equipment a few times and eventually just bought my own.

## What did you buy?

I bought a pretty basic recurve bow and everything else I needed:

* Six arrows

* A quiver

* An arm guard and glove

* A bow stringer

* Target pins

* And carrying bag

All in all, it cost me about $350.

