---
layout: post
title: "It's all fun and games until someone loses a life"
date: 2016-03-19 21:59
comments: true
categories: 
- Life
---
# 

Two weeks ago, I uninstalled every game I own from my computers and I'm SUPER glad I did.

For a long time, I thought computer games were really fun. I've been
playing then ever since I was a single digit in age when my Dad bought a
CD-ROM drive and SoundBlaster 16 sound card. The CD-ROM drive came with
a number of CDs which included evaluation versions of Myst and the
original Doom.

These games were like "wow!" They became even more interesting when we
could dial into a friend's game and play deathmatch or cooperatively.
This was a lot of fun but it took some coordination since you needed to
have a dedicated group of local people who could play at the same time
as you. Also I was probably eight at the time so these were all of my
Dad's friends.

As I grew older, the Internet became more ubiquitous even if it was only
dial-up at the time. We still had to play with folks who were local, due
to latency considerations, but now we could play on dedicated servers
(well, sort of) with complete strangers. Thanks to software like
GameSpy, we could discover the servers closest to us. Despite the ease
of discoverability, the latency restriction and relatively small number
of dedicated servers meant we had stronger communities. We all knew each
other and, in fact, some communities had entire websites, forums, and
other BBS-like functionality built around their respective games.

This pattern would continue for probably another ten years until
broadband became commonplace and games began imposing the "matchmaking"
pattern. I think that maybe the people who produced and sold games
wanted to make it easier for casual or new gamers to get started in
multiplayer, which is totally valid, but I feel like this pattern
completely killed the community aspect. At least for me.

Still though, I continued to play games regularly. Any time I got a free
moment and felt like I had nothing else I needed to do, I'd jump into a
game of some kind. If I had a short period of time available to me, I'd
hop into a fast-paced FPS (or, eventually, Rocket League). If I had an
entire day available, well hello Civilization and Eve Online!

Then, one day maybe two years ago now, Erica asked me to explain what I
enjoyed about gaming. I had told her that I enjoyed strategy games like
Civ and Eve Online because they were mentally stimulating and FPSes
because they're exciting and distracting. I could describe the precise
sensations I got from each game I played but there was something off.
The problem was that I didn't think any of these things were fun! Not
anymore, anyway.

Still, that didn't stop me from playing.

Not until we bought a house and had a lot of things put into
perspective. It turns out that, when you buy a house that needs work,
literally everything is more important or higher priority than playing
video games. I thought I could balance gaming with important things and
even other hobbies but I had already failed at that for literally twenty
years!

On top of that, for the seventh year in a row I caught myself wishing I
wrote more, read more, did more archery, learned some engineering topics
really well, started a business, and literally everything else besides
playing games.

A friend of mine, Russell, has a side business he started despite having
two kids and a demanding full time job. It was the day that I caught
myself telling him how jealous I was that I realized my priorities were
skewed.

I decided right then that, as an experiment, I would uninstall every
single PC game I owned. I reasoned that, since I use Steam, I could
recover all of the games if I ever needed to but, since my Internet
connectivity is so bad right now, it would take me a solid day just to
get a single game reinstalled. That sounded like the perfect barrier to
entry! My hypothesis was that, with the barrier to gaming being so high
now, that I would spend my free time doing literally anything else more
productive.

And, guess what? I was right.

It's only been about two weeks but I've been writing about 500 words per
day. This isn't a lot, mind you, but it's way better than the one
thousand words I wrote in all of 2014! I've also been reading. I'm still
reading Stranger in a Strange Land which I think is a beautiful book but
I've been "reading it" for probably an entire year now! And, finally,
I've been working around the house and the yard. I recently built Erica
and I a compost bin and we're getting our new garden ready for our first
Spring in our new home.

I know that not everyone has the same priorization problems as I do and
that some people genuinely find gaming fun but I don't have an ounce of
regret about ditching gaming for good.
